Merge SSH keygen changes (Step 2) and troubleshooting to Main Branch (#538)
ResearchComputing/Documentation: docs/additional-resources/amc_ssh_auth.md

Reviewer: Please modify this to use the new key

Reviewer: Please update all of this so that it refers to ed25519 use

```
## *Step 2: Generate an ssh key*

> You are strongly encouraged to set a passphrase for your key pair. You will be prompted to enter the passphrase each time you log in. You are also strongly encouraged to create an ed25519 key type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are strongly encouraged to set a passphrase for your key pair and generate a ed25519 key. You will be prompted to enter the passphrase each time you log in.
```

Reviewer: I do not think that this was applied or maybe it got overwritten?

> ### SSH Key Generation for Windows Users: 

Reviewer: Instead of using headings for the Windows/Mac/Linux portions, please use tabs. 

For documentation on how to create tabs, please see the bullet/dropdown in [CURC documentation guidelines](https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/additional-resources/contrib_curc_docs.html#curc-documentation-guidelines). 

An example of this type of tab usage can be seen in [Terminal access for different operating systems](https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/logging-in.html#terminal-access-for-different-operating-systems)

Reviewer: Similarly, I do not think this was addressed.

- It is recommended you use Powershell, but command prompt or a basic windows terminal will also work:
Once inside Powershell (or similar), execute the following command:
```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
```
- After, create a passphrase and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. Example output:

> ![](./amc_ssh_images/windows_ssh_keygen_ex.png)

Reviewer: When possible, we try to avoid pictures for terminal output. Instead, we place the content in a `bash` code block. This makes it easier to manipulate and gives us the freedom to change the things like the username very easily and modify it, if needed. Please replace these terminal output pictures with a `bash` code block.

<br>

> - 

Reviewer: I think these can be removed.

- Using PuTTY: <https://devops.ionos.com/tutorials/use-ssh-keys-with-putty-on-windows/>

### SSH Key Generation for Mac and Linux Users: 
- From a terminal window, execute the following command:
```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
```
- After, create a passphrase and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. Example output:

> ![](./amc_ssh_images/mac_sshkeygen_real.png)

Reviewer: Please see my note above. Please replace this terminal output picture with a `bash` code block.

<br>

> - NOTE for Mac users: There is a chance you need to create or alter your ssh config file (~/.ssh/config). See more in the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section below.

Reviewer: Please highlight all code or files with "code" highlighting i.e. the single back ticks.

```
## *Step 2: Generate an ssh key*

You are strongly encouraged to set a passphrase for your key pair and generate a ed25519 key. You will be prompted to enter the passphrase each time you log in.

### SSH Key Generation for Windows Users: 
- It is recommended you use Powershell, but command prompt or a basic windows terminal will also work:

> Once inside Powershell (or similar), execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended you use Powershell, but command prompt or a basic windows terminal will also work. Once inside Powershell (or similar), execute the following command:
```

```

> ssh-keygen -t ed25519

Reviewer: For the Windows, Linux, and Mac commands you provide for the key generation, I think it might be better to give the Key an explicit name. If folks are generating keys for other things, then this command might do nothing or overwrite their current key.

Author: I agree and when I give this training to AMC users I point out they can give their key a name. I've added an additional sentence to the Mac and Windows sections, but won't update the screenshot or make it a separate instruction as this is more of an optional thing

```

> - After, it is important that you **_create a passphrase_** and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. Example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After, it is important that you **_create a passphrase_** and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. In the example output provided below, we see that the public key has been saved in the path `C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`.
```

```
Z:\> ssh-keygen -t ed25519
Generating public/private ed25519 key pair.
Enter file in which to save the key (C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_ed25519):
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
Enter same passphrase again:
Your identification has been saved in C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_ed25519.
Your public key has been saved in C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub.
The key fingerprint is :
SHA256:<key here>
The key's randomart image is:
+-- [ED25519 256] --+
|   .++*=B=.        |
...
+---- [SHA256] -----+
```

> - Using PuTTY: <https://devops.ionos.com/tutorials/use-ssh-keys-with-putty-on-windows/>

Reviewer: Is this still needed? If not, I would recommend that we remove this as it has instructions for generating an RSA key

Author: I believe this has already been removed, though that may not be the case for "Uploading an SSH Key to CILogon Registry" which I will match after all edits are made

### SSH Key Generation for Mac and Linux Users: 

> - From a terminal window, execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a terminal window, execute the following command:
```

```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
```

> - After, it is important that you **_create a passphrase_** and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. Example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After, it is important that you **_create a passphrase_** and note the file path of the generated key. This will be important for step 3. In the example output provided below, we see that the public key has been saved in the path `/Users/username/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`.
```

```
username$ ssh-keygen -t ed25519
Generating public/private ed25519 key pair.
Enter file in which to save the key (/Users/username/.ssh/id_ed25519):
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
Enter same passphrase again:
Your identification has been saved in /Users/username/.ssh/id_ed25519.
Your public key has been saved in /Users/username/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub.
The key fingerprint is :
SHA256:<key here>
The key's ranomart image is:
+-- [ED25519 256] --+
|   .++*=B=.        |
...
+---- [SHA256] -----+
```

> - NOTE for Mac users: There is a chance you need to create or alter your ssh config file `~/.ssh/config`. See more in the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section below.

Reviewer: Please put all notes in "note" admonitions. You can find guidance on how to do this in the `Components` portion of the following documentation: https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/additional-resources/contrib_curc_docs.html#curc-documentation-guidelines

Author: I updated the format to follow "note" admonitions but it didn't seem to take. I will circle back on this

Author: From what I see the "note" admonition will apply in the readthedocs but not the github, so this should be alright. Please let me know if that is not the case

## Troubleshooting

* If you are able to get through [Step 3](#step-3-upload-your-ssh-key-to-registrycilogonorg) but unable to ssh in from your terminal, check that the ssh key in your command is the same key you uploaded to the registry.
* For Mac users: If you have set up the key and followed all the steps above but are prompted for a **__password__** instead of a **__passphrase__**, you may need to edit or create a config file (~/.ssh/config). If you don't have an ssh config file, you can create it from the terminal window with the command `touch ~/.ssh/config`. After, edit the file and add the following 3 lines before trying again:
```
Host *
HostKeyAlgorithms ssh-ed25519
PubkeyAcceptedAlgorithms ssh-ed25519

> ```

Reviewer: Please indent this code block. It might also be better to specify the particular host, just incase they are connecting to other systems that do not require this. 

You will have to test it out, but I think doing something like the following will make it so that it will only apply this if they login to our system: 
```
Host login.rc.colorado.edu
HostKeyAlgorithms ssh-ed25519
PubkeyAcceptedAlgorithms ssh-ed25519
```

## Troubleshooting

* If you are able to get through [Step 3](#step-3-upload-your-ssh-key-to-registrycilogonorg) but unable to ssh in from your terminal, check that the ssh key in your command is the same key you uploaded to the registry.

> * For Mac users: If you have set up the key and followed all the steps above but are prompted for a **__password__** instead of a **__passphrase__**, you may need to edit or create a config file (~/.ssh/config). If you don't have an ssh config file, you can create it from the terminal window with the command `touch ~/.ssh/config`. After, edit the file and add the following 3 lines before trying again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Mac users: If you have set up the key and followed all the steps above but are prompted for a **__password__** instead of a **__passphrase__**, you may need to edit or create a config file (`~/.ssh/config`). If you don't have an ssh config file, you can create it from the terminal window with the command `touch ~/.ssh/config`. After, edit the file and add the following 3 lines before trying again:
```

  ```
  Host login.rc.colorado.edu
  HostKeyAlgorithms ssh-ed25519
  PubkeyAcceptedAlgorithms ssh-ed25519
  ```

> * If you are prompted for a **__passphrase__** (not a password) when signing in from your terminal, this refers to the passphrase you set when you generated your ssh key. If you don't remember it then you will have to generate and upload a new ssh key to the registry. If you are prompted for a **__password__**, please submit a [support request form](https://colorado.service-now.com/req_portal?id=ucb_sc_rc_form), as this indicates an issue with your CILogon enrollment. Please include a screenshot of the error message and the date/time of your last login attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are prompted for a **__password__** and are not a Mac user, please submit a [support request form](https://colorado.service-now.com/req_portal?id=ucb_sc_rc_form), as this indicates an issue with your CILogon enrollment. Please include a screenshot of the error message and the date/time of your last login attempt.
* If you are prompted for a **__passphrase__** (not a password) when signing in from your terminal, this refers to the passphrase you set when you generated your ssh key. If you don't remember it then you will have to generate and upload a new ssh key to the registry. 
```
